🚧 The “Replit Dual Deployment” Gotcha
Even though Replit is deploying to both probateswift.replit.app and probateswift.com, here’s the gotcha:

Firebase treats these as separate origins.

So even if it's the same app codebase and server, from Firebase’s perspective:

probateswift.replit.app ≠ probateswift.com

Auth sessions are tied to the origin where login happened

A user logged in at replit.app will not be considered logged in at .com

✅ Why It Works on replit.app
You likely logged in first via replit.app

Firebase saved the session cookie scoped to .replit.app

All requests from that origin include the token correctly

Hence, /api/user returns successfully with proper auth

❌ Why It Fails on probateswift.com
Even though the same frontend and backend code is running,

Firebase’s auth context on probateswift.com has no session

So firebase.auth().currentUser is null

Therefore, no token is attached, and /api/user returns 401 Unauthorized

🛠 Fix / Action Plan
Log in at https://probateswift.com/auth
This will initialize the Firebase session cookie scoped to .com

✅ Once logged in on .com, all fetch requests will automatically start including the token again due to our patch.

🧪 To debug further, log firebase.auth().currentUser and verify it's no longer null after login.

Optional: Cross-Origin Session Sync?
Firebase does not support session sharing between origins. If you need to sync logins across both domains, you’d have to:

Implement OAuth login redirects

Share tokens manually (not recommended)

Or simply standardize to one domain, e.g. redirect everything to probateswift.com

Would you like help adding an automatic redirect from replit.app → probateswift.com to avoid this confusion for users?







You said:
so expected behaviour isnt to be split across replit.app anmd porbateswift.com but to be entirely in probateswift.com 

but i did test with replit.app before testing probateswift.com 


ChatGPT said:
Exactly — that explains everything.

✅ Summary of What Happened
You intended the app to run entirely at:

https://probateswift.com

But:

Replit automatically makes it available at both probateswift.replit.app and probateswift.com

You happened to test login first at replit.app

Firebase stored the login session under that origin

Then when you visited probateswift.com, no session existed, so:

firebase.auth().currentUser was null

Auth token couldn’t be attached

API returned 401 Unauthorized

🔍 Why This Happens
Firebase Authentication uses:

Cookies scoped to the origin (e.g. .replit.app vs .com)

Local/session storage per origin

So even though both domains hit the same frontend/backend code, authentication is not shared

This is expected behavior in all browser-based auth systems due to security rules.

✅ What You Should Do Now
Redirect all users to https://probateswift.com, not replit.app
You can configure this in Replit or add a manual redirect in your app like:

ts
Copy
Edit
if (window.location.hostname.endsWith('replit.app')) {
  window.location.href = 'https://probateswift.com' + window.location.pathname;
}
Use only probateswift.com for all logins and testing going forward

(Optional but Recommended):
Add probateswift.com as your only Firebase hosting and OAuth redirect domain to avoid future confusion.

